October newsletter (#349)
maplibre/maplibre.github.io: content/news/2024-10-30-maplibre-newsletter-october-2024/index.md

---
title: "MapLibre Newsletter October 2024"
date: "2024-11-03"
categories: ["newsletter"]
authors: [meena]
draft: false
---

# MapLibre Newsletter - November 2024

We’re delighted to begin the November newsletter with a gracious and hearty Thank You to Meta for their unwavering support as a sponsor of MapLibre in 2024! We look forward to what is to come.

<a href="https://www.meta.com/">
<img src="Meta.png" width="100%"/>
</a>
<br />
<br />

## MapLibre GL JS

We have released versions 5.0.0-pre.2, 5.0.0-pre.3 and 5.0.0-pre.4 this month.
One interesting feature that was recently added was the support for pitch larger than 90 degrees.

Here's an interesting situation that should be possible now:

<a href="pitchlarger90degrees.png">
<img src="pitchlarger90degrees.png" width="100%"/>
</a>
<br/>
<br/>

> An interesting read on how this works can be found [here] (https://github.com/maplibre/maplibre-gl-js/blob/49d7fc96ad883b4e1042fe305cd0c0a16ccd9732/developer-guides/center-point.md)

Reviewer: This Markdown link is broken.

See Markdown syntax here: https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax

We have introduced some breaking changes in these versions as was planned for version 5, so make sure to take a look at the changelog for more details.
There are still open issues with globe and other improvements we plan to add as part of this major release. Stay tuned!
See the initial post in the following issue to see the current status:

> [Breaking Changes in MapLibre GLJS v5 maplibre gl-js#3834] (https://github.com/maplibre/maplibre-gl-js/issues/3834)

Reviewer: Broken Markdown link.

Overall we are progressing well and ironing out the globe feature.

## MapLibre Native

- Development of the Vulkan backend continued this month. We also ran another benchmark on AWS Device Farm, using even more device types this time. One conclusion you may draw from the results is that Vulkan will offer a solid performance boost on modern devices. We're still validating these results. Stay tuned for an Android official release following later this year!

- Kaushal Kumar Singh rewrote the Android build config from Groovy to the more modern Kotlin in [#2902](https://github.com/maplibre/maplibre-native/pull/2902).

-Support for text-variable-anchor-offset has been merged [#2921](hhttps://github.com/maplibre/maplibre-native/pull/2921). This feature is one of the features that Microsoft championed to be added to MapLibre GL JS, and now ported to MapLibre Native. We're happy with this contribution and are excited about Microsoft adopting MapLibre Native.

> - MapLibre iOS [6.7.1 and 6.8.0] were released. (https://github.com/maplibre/maplibre-native/releases?q=ios&expanded=true).

Reviewer: Broken Markdown link.

> - MapLibre Android [11.5.1] was released. (https://github.com/maplibre/maplibre-native/releases?q=android-v11&expanded=true).

Reviewer: Broken Markdown link.

- We also made two releases for [MapLibre Android v10](https://github.com/maplibre/maplibre-native/releases?q=android-v10&expanded=true) with some backports.

## Flutter

We’re conducting a brief survey to gather feedback on MapLibre Flutter. The survey takes only about 2 minutes to complete and will help to identify strengths and areas for improvement. If you've worked with MapLibre on Flutter, your input is highly appreciated.

> [You can participate here](https://forms.gle/UTB6KjVFtmYv2RzU8)

Reviewer: You need to make here a m
```suggestion
You can participate [here](https://forms.gle/UTB6KjVFtmYv2RzU8).
```

## Conferences

> Check out these events to attend:

Reviewer: This is not formatted properly.

You can run Hugo locally with:

```
npm install
npm run serve
```

<img width="907" alt="Screenshot 2024-11-05 at 20 50 49" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/830b5678-38f7-4602-b3e6-e0efff1210aa">

---
title: "MapLibre Newsletter October 2024"
date: "2024-11-03"
categories: ["newsletter"]
authors: [meena]
draft: false
---

# MapLibre Newsletter - November 2024

We’re delighted to begin the November newsletter with a gracious and hearty Thank You to Meta for their unwavering support as a sponsor of MapLibre in 2024! We look forward to what is to come. 

<a href="https://www.meta.com/">
<img src="Meta.png" width="100%"/>
</a>
<br />
<br />

## MapLibre GL JS

We have released versions 5.0.0-pre.2, 5.0.0-pre.3 and 5.0.0-pre.4 this month.
One interesting feature that was recently added was the support for pitch larger than 90 degrees.

Here's an interesting situation that should be possible now:

<a href="pitchlarger90degrees.png">
<img src="pitchlarger90degrees.png" width="100%"/>
</a>
<br/>
<br/>

An interesting read on how this works can be found [here] (https://github.com/maplibre/maplibre-gl-js/blob/49d7fc96ad883b4e1042fe305cd0c0a16ccd9732/developer-guides/center-point.md)

> WWe have introduced some breaking changes in these versions as was planned for version 5, to make sure to take a look at the changelog for more details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We have introduced some breaking changes in these versions as was planned for version 5, so make sure to take a look at the changelog for more details.
```

> There are still open issues with globe and other improvement we plan to add as part of this major release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are still open issues with globe and other improvements we plan to add as part of this major release. Stay tuned!
```

<br/>
<br/>

> An interesting read on how this works can be found [here](https://github.com/maplibre/maplibre-gl-js/blob/49d7fc96ad883b4e1042fe305cd0c0a16ccd9732/developer-guides/center-point.md)

Reviewer: Missing dot at the end of the sentence.

We have introduced some breaking changes in these versions as was planned for version 5, so make sure to take a look at the changelog for more details.
There are still open issues with globe and other improvements we plan to add as part of this major release. Stay tuned!
See the initial post in the following issue to see the current status:

> [Breaking Changes in MapLibre GLJS v5 maplibre gl-js#3834](https://github.com/maplibre/maplibre-gl-js/issues/3834)

Reviewer: It would be clearer to make `initial post` the link here and replace the `:` with a `.` in the sentence...

Author: Up to GLJS, made the change if no further comment

> Overall we are progressing well and ironing out the globe feature.

Reviewer: I think this is duplicated, because we also say that "There are still open issues with globe and other improvements we plan to add as part of this major release. Stay tuned!" in the previous paragraph.

Author: Up to GLJS, made the change if no further comment

## MapLibre Native

> For MapLibre Native, we have continued development of Vulkan, along with Android and IoS updates and feature parity. 

Reviewer: IoS -> wrong capitalization.

I don't think this sentence adds anything.

Author: Keeping to have a segue into the section

> - Development of the Vulkan backend continued this month. We also ran another benchmark on AWS Device Farm, using even more device types this time. One conclusion you may draw from the results is that Vulkan will offer a solid performance boost on modern devices. We're still validating these results. Stay tuned for an Android official release following later this year!

Reviewer: Link to the results is missing?

- Kaushal Kumar Singh rewrote the Android build config from Groovy to the more modern Kotlin in [#2902](https://github.com/maplibre/maplibre-native/pull/2902).

> -Support for text-variable-anchor-offset has been merged [#2921](hhttps://github.com/maplibre/maplibre-native/pull/2921). This feature is one of the features that Microsoft championed to be added to MapLibre GL JS, and now ported to MapLibre Native. We're happy with this contribution and are excited about Microsoft adopting MapLibre Native.

Reviewer: Please copy the Markdown text I submitted.

There is an error in the link now `hhtps` instead of `https`. Also the link to `text-variable-anchor-offset` is gone as are the backticks.

- MapLibre iOS [6.7.1 and 6.8.0](https://github.com/maplibre/maplibre-native/releases?q=ios&expanded=true) were released.
- MapLibre Android [11.5.1] was released. (https://github.com/maplibre/maplibre-native/releases?q=android-v11&expanded=true).
- We also made two releases for [MapLibre Android v10](https://github.com/maplibre/maplibre-native/releases?q=android-v10&expanded=true) with some backports.

## Flutter

We’re conducting a brief survey to gather feedback on MapLibre Flutter. The survey takes only about 2 minutes to complete and will help to identify strengths and areas for improvement. If you've worked with MapLibre on Flutter, your input is highly appreciated.

> You can participate [here](https://forms.gle/UTB6KjVFtmYv2RzU8)

Reviewer: Missing dot at the end of the sentence.

Author: Added after "here" otherwise I see this grammatically fine

## Conferences

Check out these events to attend:

> FOSS4G is hosted by the Open Source Geospatial Foundation (OSGeo), in collaboration with the local community.The foundation's goal is to encourage the use and collaborative development of community-led projects, data development and education.

Reviewer: This feels a little bit out of place.

But if you want to include it, move this text to the FOSS4G point below, because FOSSGIS is a different conference. We should also add a text for FOSSGIS for consistency then.

Also there is a space missing here: `community.The`

Author: Removed descriptors, not necessary to market their conference in our newsletter

- [FOSS4G 2024 in Belem, Brazil](https://2024.foss4g.org/en/)

> - [FOSSGIS 2025 in Muenster, Germany](https://fossgis-konferenz.de/2025/programm/)

Reviewer: Münster is the correct spelling. We should mention that this conference is in German.
